Add Concurrency 3.0 to 22.0.0.9-beta post (#2434)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-08-04-jakarta-core-profile-22009-beta.adoc

* link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/expressionLanguage.html[Open Liberty Expression Language feature documentation]

[#concurrency]

> === Concurrency 3.0 for Jakarta EE 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Jakarta EE 10 Concurrency 3.0
```

Should be same header as the others and should match the format of Expression Language.

The Jakarta Concurrency specification enhances the set of parallel and reactive programming models available to applications, enabling tasks and completion stage actions to run with the thread context of the submitter.

Concurrency 3.0 includes the following enhancements:

> * Resource definition annotations that put applications in control of defining the concurrency constraints and thread context types that the application requires.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Resource definition annotations that put applications in control of defining the concurrency constraints and thread context types that the application requires
```

> * Context-aware completion stages that are managed by the container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Context-aware completion stages that are managed by the container
```

> * Asynchronous methods that are backed by context-aware completion stages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Asynchronous methods that are backed by context-aware completion stages
```

> * Improvements to Triggers for customizing the scheduling of business logic according to dates and times within one's own time zone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improvements to Triggers for customizing the scheduling of business logic according to dates and times within one's own time zone
```

> * Standardized integration for third-party providers of thread context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Standardized integration for third-party providers of thread context
```

Enable the concurrent-3.0 feature in server.xml, along with other Jakarta EE 10 beta features that you wish to use in combination with it, for example:

[source, xml]
----
<featureManager>
  <feature>concurrent-3.0</feature>
  <!-- other features that are used in the examples: -->
  <feature>cdi-4.0</feature>
  <feature>jdbc-4.2</feature>
  <feature>jndi-1.0</feature>

>   <feature>servlet-6.0</feature>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <feature>restfulWS-3.1</feature>
```

servlet-6.0 is not available in the beta.

</featureManager>
----

You can still configure `<managedExecutorService>` and other Concurrency resource types in your `server.xml` file as you did for previous versions of the feature.

> However, Concurrency 3.0 gives you the ability to define those resources within application components. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, In Concurrency 3.0 you can define those resources within application components. For example:
```

[source, java]
----
import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.ALL_REMAINING;
import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.APPLICATION;
import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.SECURITY;
import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.TRANSACTION;

import jakarta.annotation.Resource;
import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition;
import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorDefinition;
import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorService;
import jakarta.inject.Inject;
import jakarta.servlet.http.*;

import java.sql.*;
import java.util.concurrent.CompletionException;

@ContextServiceDefinition(name = "java:app/concurrent/AppContextOnly",
        propagated = APPLICATION,
        cleared = { TRANSACTION, SECURITY },
        unchanged = ALL_REMAINING)
@ManagedExecutorDefinition(name = "java:module/concurrent/MyExecutor",
        context = "java:app/concurrent/AppContextOnly",
        maxAsync = 5)

> public class MyServlet extends HttpServlet {

Reviewer: Servlet is not available.  Should it be changed to a RESTful Web Services resource instead?

Reviewer: Since servlet 6.0 isn't available is there even value with updating the concurrency section in the beta blog?  @njr-11 / @KyleAure ?

Reviewer 3: Given that the Concurrency examples are all written for Servlet, I recommend commenting them out in the beta for now, starting with the text "For example:" and everything after that.  In a future beta when servlet-6.0 is added, then uncomment them.

Author: ```suggestion
You can still configure `<managedExecutorService>` and other Concurrency resource types in your `server.xml` file as you did for previous versions of the feature.  However, In Concurrency 3.0 you can define those resources within application components.
```

> You can still configure `<managedExecutorService>` and other Concurrency resource types in your `server.xml` file as you did for previous versions of the feature.
> 
> However, In Concurrency 3.0 you can define those resources within application components. For example:
> 
> [source, java]
> ----
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.ALL_REMAINING;
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.APPLICATION;
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.SECURITY;
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.TRANSACTION;
> 
> import jakarta.annotation.Resource;
> import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition;
> import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorDefinition;
> import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorService;
> import jakarta.inject.Inject;
> import jakarta.servlet.http.*;
> 
> import java.sql.*;
> import java.util.concurrent.CompletionException;
> 
> @ContextServiceDefinition(name = "java:app/concurrent/AppContextOnly",
>         propagated = APPLICATION,
>         cleared = { TRANSACTION, SECURITY },
>         unchanged = ALL_REMAINING)
> @ManagedExecutorDefinition(name = "java:module/concurrent/MyExecutor",
>         context = "java:app/concurrent/AppContextOnly",
>         maxAsync = 5)
> public class MyServlet extends HttpServlet {
>     @Resource(name = "java:module/env/concurrent/MyExecutorRef",
>               lookup = "java:module/concurrent/MyExecutor")
>     ManagedExecutorService myExecutor;
> 
>     @Inject AccountsBean accounts;
>     ...
> ----
> 

Author: ```suggestion
You can still configure `<managedExecutorService>` and other Concurrency resource types in your `server.xml` file as you did for previous versions of the feature.  However, In Concurrency 3.0 you can define those resources within application components.
```

> You can still configure `<managedExecutorService>` and other Concurrency resource types in your `server.xml` file as you did for previous versions of the feature.
> 
> However, Concurrency 3.0 gives you the ability to define those resources within application components. For example:
> 
> [source, java]
> ----
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.ALL_REMAINING;
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.APPLICATION;
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.SECURITY;
> import static jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition.TRANSACTION;
> 
> import jakarta.annotation.Resource;
> import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ContextServiceDefinition;
> import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorDefinition;
> import jakarta.enterprise.concurrent.ManagedExecutorService;
> import jakarta.inject.Inject;
> import jakarta.servlet.http.*;
> 
> import java.sql.*;
> import java.util.concurrent.CompletionException;
> 
> @ContextServiceDefinition(name = "java:app/concurrent/AppContextOnly",
>         propagated = APPLICATION,
>         cleared = { TRANSACTION, SECURITY },
>         unchanged = ALL_REMAINING)
> @ManagedExecutorDefinition(name = "java:module/concurrent/MyExecutor",
>         context = "java:app/concurrent/AppContextOnly",
>         maxAsync = 5)
> public class MyServlet extends HttpServlet {
>     @Resource(name = "java:module/env/concurrent/MyExecutorRef",
>               lookup = "java:module/concurrent/MyExecutor")
>     ManagedExecutorService myExecutor;
> 
>     @Inject AccountsBean accounts;
>     ...
> ----

Author: ```suggestion
You can still configure `<managedExecutorService>` and other Concurrency resource types in your `server.xml` file as you did for previous versions of the feature.  However, Concurrency 3.0 gives you the ability to define those resources within application components. 
```

        } catch (NamingException | SQLException x) {
            throw new CompletionException(x);
        }
    }

    ...
----

When the application invokes the asynchronous method, the container intercepts the invocation and hands back a completion stage representing its eventual completion, which is arranged by the `ManagedExecutorService`.  For example:

[source, java]
----
    public void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse res) {
        ...
        accounts.findOverdue(60).thenAccept(this::sendReminder);
        ...
    }

    void sendReminder(List<Account> overdue) {
        try {
            // Resource reference lookup requires context of the application component,
            DataSource db = InitialContext.doLookup("java:comp/env/jdbc/customer-db-ref");
            ...
        } catch (NamingException | SQLException x) {
            throw new CompletionException(x);
        }
    }
----

The Maven coordinates for Concurrency 3.0 are as follows:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>jakarta.enterprise.concurrent</groupId>
    <artifactId>jakarta.enterprise.concurrent-api</artifactId>

>     <version>3.0.0</version>

Reviewer: @njr-11 should this be updated to 3.0.1?

Reviewer 3: There is no difference in the API between 3.0.0 and 3.0.1 and there will be a 3.0.2 created soon, but it doesn't exist yet.  Open Liberty is basically skipping over 3.0.1 and will go straight to 3.0.2 so I think it's fine to leave it.
